0.15.3-a1 -- 2022-10-27
-----------------------


🚀 Features
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

EdgeConnect Telemetry Demo Example
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

✨ **Added new code example!**: A fully automated telemetry demo showing
the potential for visualizing EdgeConnect metrics in tools external to
Orchestrator.

Easily deployed via docker-compose with minimal inputs required, the
demo connects to Orchestrator to discover appliances and then worker
nodes directly retrieve data and metrics from EdgeConnect appliances.
The data is written to a database and then visualized in Grafana
dashboards.

Detailed documentation in the Examples section :ref:`ec_telemetry_demo`

As with all examples, the code referenced is available from the GitHub
repository within the `examples <https://github.com/SPOpenSource/edgeconnect-python/tree/main/examples>`_
folder.

Clone the repository and download the examples with:

  .. code:: bash

      $ git clone https://github.com/SPOpenSource/edgeconnect-python.git

Init Requests Timeout for Orchestrator & EdgeConnect
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Introduced user-defined timeout settings for requests to Orchestrator
and EdgeConnect. Previous behavior had a fixed timeout setting of
120 seconds for all requests.

New init variable for Orchestrator and EdgeConnect classes ``timeout``
as a tuple to define initial connect and read timeout values
for underlying requests. Defaults to conservative values of 9.15s for
connect and 12s for read. This allows users to turndown timeout timers
more applicable to their environment rather than having to wait
for connection to fail on previous default 120s timeout value inherited
from the Requests library.

.. code:: python

    # Instantiate Orchestrator with shorter timeout values of
    # 3.05 seconds for connect and 10 seconds for read
    orch = Orchestrator(
      url="192.0.2.100",
      api_key="abc123",
      timeout=(3.05,10)
    )

Updated the following Orchestrator functions from Swagger:
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- New parameters for :func:`~pyedgeconnect.Orchestrator.get_appliance_flows`

Added additional query parameters supporting custom time range filters
for retrieving flows from appliances. ``active_uptime_start`` and
``active_uptime_end`` to support active flows, along with
``term_uptime_start`` and ``term_uptime_end`` to support ended flows.

- Updated return data for :func:`~pyedgeconnect.Orchestrator.create_preconfig`

Previously function only returned boolean for success/failure. Now on
success returns dictionary including assigned ID of the created
preconfig, e.g., ``{ "id": 118 }``

Added the following EdgeConnect functions from Swagger:
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

from .ecos._cpu
  - :func:`~pyedgeconnect.EdgeConnect.get_appliance_cpu`

from .ecos._system_info
  - :func:`~pyedgeconnect.EdgeConnect.get_appliance_system_info`

📚 Documentation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Added additional CSS for Sphinx docs to fit Aruba palette in a dark theme


🐛 Bug Fixes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

📚 Docs Typo fixes:
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- Example docs linking back to GitHub repository had ``https://https://``
- Docstring typo - :func:`~pyedgeconnect.Orchestrator.get_appliance_deployment`
  docstring reponse used key of "licence" vs. "license"
- Docstring typo - :func:`~pyedgeconnect.Orchestrator.get_appliance_inbound_shaper`
  docstring response was copy/paste from DNS proxy. Replaced with
  accurate inbound shaper response contents.
- Docstring typo - :func:`~pyedgeconnect.Orchestrator.get_appliance_flows`
  docstring parameter typo of "protocl" vs. "protocol"
- Docstring typo - :func:`~pyedgeconnect.Orchestrator.get_audit_log`
  docstring parameter typo of return parameter type "(`boolean`)" vs.
  "(`bool`)"

🐛 Known Issues
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. warning::

  The following two functions for the _ip_objects submodule exprience
  errors at this time. These function do work in the Orchestrator UI:
  :func:`~pyedgeconnect.Orchestrator.bulk_upload_address_group` and
  :func:`~pyedgeconnect.Orchestrator.bulk_upload_service_group`